.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Roy Marples
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 2, 2009
.Dt OPENRC 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm openrc
.Nd stops and starts services for the specified runlevel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n , -no-stop
.Op Fl o , -override
.Op Ar runlevel
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
first stops any services that are not in the specified runlevel unless
--no-stop is specified, then starts any services in the runlevel and
stacked runlevels added by
.Nm rc-update
that are not currently started.
If no runlevel is specified, we use the current runlevel.
.Pp
There are some special runlevels that you should be aware of:
.Bl -tag -width "shutdown"
.It Ar sysinit
Brings up any system specific stuff such as
.Pa /dev ,
.Pa /proc
and optionally
.Pa /sys
for Linux based systems. It also mounts
.Pa /lib/rc/init.d
as a ramdisk using tmpfs where available unless / is mounted rw at boot.
.Nm
uses
.Pa /lib/rc/init.d
to hold state information about the services it runs.
sysinit always runs when the host first starts should not be run again.
.It Ar boot
Generally the only services you should add to the boot runlevel are those
which deal with the mounting of filesystems, set the initial state of attached
peripherals and logging.
Hotplugged services are added to the boot runlevel by the system.
All services in the boot and sysinit runlevels are automatically included
in all other runlevels except for those listed here.
.It Ar single
Stops all services except for those in the sysinit runlevel.
.It Ar reboot
Changes to the shutdown runlevel and then reboots the host.
.It Ar shutdown
Changes to the shutdown runlevel and then halts the host.
.El
.Pp
You should not call any of these runlevels yourself.
Instead you should use
.Xr init 8
and
.Xr shutdown 8
and let them call these special runlevels.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rc-status 8 ,
.Xr rc-update 8 ,
.Xr init 8 ,
.Xr shutdown 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples Aq roy@marples.name
