.\" Copyright (c) 2017 The OpenRC Authors.
.\" See the Authors file at the top-level directory of this distribution and
.\" https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/master/AUTHORS
.\"
.\" This file is part of OpenRC. It is subject to the license terms in
.\" the LICENSE file found in the top-level directory of this
.\" distribution and at https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/master/LICENSE
.\" This file may not be copied, modified, propagated, or distributed
.\"    except according to the terms contained in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd May 22, 2017
.Dt openrc-shutdown 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm openrc-shutdown
.Nd bring the system down
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl H , -halt
.Op Fl k , -kexec
.Op Fl p , -poweroff
.Op Fl R , -reexec
.Op Fl r , -reboot
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the utility that communicates with openrc-init(8) to bring down the
system or instruct openrc-init to re-execute itself. It supports the
following options:
.Bl -tag -width "poweroff"
.It Fl d , -dry-run
Print the action that would be taken without executing it. This is to
allow testing.
.It Fl H , -halt
Stop all services, kill all remaining processes and halt the system.
.It Fl k , -kexec
Stop all services, kill all processes and boot directly into a new
kernel loaded via kexec(8).
.It Fl p , -poweroff
Stop all services, kill all processes and power off the system.
.It Fl R , -reexec
instruct openrc-init to re-exec itself. This should be used after an
upgrade of OpenRC if you are using openrc-init as your init process.
.It Fl r , -reboot
Stop all services, kill all processes and reboot the system.
.El
.Pp
If none of these options are given, the default is to move the system
into single user mode.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openrc-init 8 ,
.Xr kexec 8 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.An William Hubbs <w.d.hubbs@gmail.com>
