.\" Copyright (c) 2026 The OpenRC Authors.
.\" See the Authors file at the top-level directory of this distribution and
.\" https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/AUTHORS
.\"
.\" This file is part of OpenRC. It is subject to the license terms in
.\" the LICENSE file found in the top-level directory of this
.\" distribution and at https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/LICENSE
.\" This file may not be copied, modified, propagated, or distributed
.\"    except according to the terms contained in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd April 2, 2026
.Dt RC-ANALYZE 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc-analyze
.Nd analyze OpenRC startup performance
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar blame | critical-chain | time
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides commands to analyze the boot performance of an OpenRC-based
system.
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands are available:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl critical-chain"
.It Nm blame
Prints a list of all services that were started, sorted by the time they took
to start up (longest first). This helps identify the slowest services during
boot.
.It Nm critical-chain
.Op Ar service
Shows the chain of dependencies that led to the specified
.Ar service
starting. If no service is specified, it shows the chain for the last service
to start in the default runlevel. The output is a tree where each dependency
is a parent of the service that depends on it. The time at which each service
became active and the time it took to start are printed.
.It Nm time
Prints a summary of the time spent getting to the default runlevel.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openrc 8 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.An The OpenRC Authors <openrc@lists.gentoo.org>
