.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2025 The OpenRC Authors.
.\" See the Authors file at the top-level directory of this distribution and
.\" https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/AUTHORS
.\"
.\" This file is part of OpenRC. It is subject to the license terms in
.\" the LICENSE file found in the top-level directory of this
.\" distribution and at https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/LICENSE
.\" This file may not be copied, modified, propagated, or distributed
.\"    except according to the terms contained in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2025
.Dt RC-STATUS 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc-status
.Nd show status info about runlevels
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl C
.Op Fl f Ar ini
.Op Fl i Ar state
.Op Ar runlevel
.Nm
.Op Fl C
.Op Fl f Ar ini
.Op -a | -m | -S | -s | -u
.Nm
.Op Fl C
.Op -c | -l | -r
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
gathers and displays information about the status of services
in different runlevels.  The default behavior is to show information
about the current runlevel and any unassigned services that are not stopped,
but any runlevel can be quickly examined.
.Pp
If an active service is being supervised by
.Xr supervise-daemon 8 ,
the amount of time the daemon has been active along with the number of
times it has been respawned in the current respawn period will be
displayed.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl test , test string"
.It Fl a , -all
Show all runlevels and their services.
.It Fl c , -crashed
List all services that have crashed (in any runlevel) in plain text format.
.It Fl f , -format
Select a format for the output. Currently, the only one that can be
specified is ini, which outputs in *.ini format.
.It Fl i , -in-state
Show services in given state. Can be combined, e.g
.Ar -i started -i crashed
will select any services which are either in started or crashed state.
Available states are:
.Dq stopped ,
.Dq started ,
.Dq stopping ,
.Dq starting ,
.Dq inactive ,
.Dq hotplugged ,
.Dq failed ,
.Dq scheduled
and
.Dq crashed .
.It Fl l , -list
List all defined runlevels.
.It Fl m , -manual
Show all manually started services.
.It Fl r , -runlevel
Print the current runlevel name.
.It Fl S , -supervised
Show all supervised services.
.It Fl s , -servicelist
Show all services (in any runlevel).
.It Fl u , -unused
Show services not assigned to any runlevel.
.It Fl C , -nocolor
Disable color output.
.It Ar runlevel
Show information only for the named
.Ar runlevel .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits 0, except when checking for crashed services and it doesn't find any.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.Nm
tries to list services within each runlevel in the presently resolved
dependency order if the dependency tree is available.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openrc 8 ,
.Xr rc-update 8 ,
.Xr supervise-daemon 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>
