.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Roy Marples
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 17, 2008
.Dt RC_FIND_PIDS 3 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc_find_pids
.Nd finds the pids of processes that match the given criteria
.Sh LIBRARY
Run Command library (librc, -lrc)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In rc.h
.Ft "RC_PIDLIST *" Fo rc_find_pids
.Fa "const char *const *argv"
.Fa "const char *cmd"
.Fa "uid_t uid"
.Fa "pid_t pid"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn rc_find_pids
returns RC_PIDLIST, a structure based on the LIST macro from
.Xr queue 3
which contains all the pids found matching the given criteria.
If
.Fa pid
is given then only that pid is returned if it is running. Otherise we check
all instances of
.Fa argv
with a process name of
.Fa cmd
owned by
.Fa uid ,
all of which are optional.
.Pp
The returned list should be freed when done.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
On BSD systems we use
.Lb libkvm
and on Linux systems we use the
.Pa /proc
filesystem to find our processes.
.Pp
Each RC_PID should be freed in the list as well as the list itself when done.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr free 3 ,
.Xr queue 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>
