.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Roy Marples
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 16, 2008
.Dt RC_RUNLEVEL 3 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc_runlevel_get , rc_runlevel_exists , rc_runlevel_list , rc_runlevel_set ,
.Nm rc_runlevel_starting , rc_runlevel_stopping
.Nd RC runlevel functions
.Sh LIBRARY
Run Command library (librc, -lrc)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In rc.h
.Ft "char *" Fn rc_runlevel_get void
.Ft bool Fn rc_runlevel_exists
.Ft "RC_STRINGLIST *" Fn rc_runlevel_list void
.Ft bool Fn rc_runlevel_set "const char *runlevel"
.Ft bool Fn rc_runlevel_starting void
.Ft bool Fn rc_runlevel_stopping void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a means of querying OpenRC to find out which runlevel
we are in and what services are in which runlevel.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
Each function that returns
.Fr "char *"
returns a malloced NULL terminated string that should be freed when done.
.Pp
Each function that returns
.Fr "RC_STRINGLIST *"
should by freed by calling
.Fn rc_stringlist_free
when done.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/init.d/functions.sh
is provided by OpenRC, which allows shell scripts to use the above functions.
For historical reasons our verbose functions are prefixed with v instead of
suffixed. So einfov becomes veinfo, einfovn becomes veinfon.
Rinse and repeat for the other verbose functions.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr free 3
.Xr rc_stringlist_free 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>
