.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2015 The OpenRC Authors.
.\" See the Authors file at the top-level directory of this distribution and
.\" https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/AUTHORS
.\"
.\" This file is part of OpenRC. It is subject to the license terms in
.\" the LICENSE file found in the top-level directory of this
.\" distribution and at https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/HEAD/LICENSE
.\" This file may not be copied, modified, propagated, or distributed
.\"    except according to the terms contained in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd December 14, 2009
.Dt START-STOP-DAEMON 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm start-stop-daemon
.Nd ensures that daemons start and stop
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl S , -start
.Ar daemon
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar arguments
.Nm
.Fl K , -stop
.Ar daemon
.Nm
.Fl s , -signal
.Ar signal
.Ar daemon
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
provides a consistent method of starting, stopping and signaling daemons.
If neither
.Fl K , -stop
nor
.Fl s , -signal
are provided, then we assume we are starting the daemon.
If a daemon cannot background by itself, nor create a pidfile,
.Nm
can do it for the daemon in a secure fashion.
.Pp
If
.Nm
is used in an OpenRC service, then OpenRC can in turn check to see if the
daemon is still running. If not, then the service is marked as crashed.
.Pp
Here are the options to specify the daemon and how it should start or stop:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl x , -exec Ar daemon
The
.Ar daemon
we start or stop.
If this option is not specified, then the first non option argument
is used.
.It Fl p , -pidfile Ar pidfile
When starting, we expect the daemon to create a valid
.Ar pidfile
within a reasonable amount of time. When stopping we only stop the first pid
listed in the
.Ar pidfile .
.It Fl n , -name Ar name
Match the process
.Ar name
instead of a pidfile or executable.
.It Fl i , -interpreted
When matching process name, we should ensure that the correct interpreter
is also matched.
So if the daemon foo starts off like so
.D1 #!/usr/bin/perl -w
then
.Nm
matches the process
.D1 /usr/bin/perl -w foo
If an interpreted daemon changes its process name then this won't work.
.It Fl u , -user Ar user Ns Op : Ns Ar group
Start the daemon as the
.Ar user
and update $HOME accordingly or stop daemons
owned by the user. You can optionally append a
.Ar group
name here also.
.It Fl t , -test
Print the action(s) that would be taken, but don't actually do anything.
The return value is set as if the command was taken and worked.
.It Fl v , -verbose
Print the action(s) that are taken just before doing them.
.It Fl q , -quiet
Run quietly (repeat to suppress errors).
.It Fl P , -progress
Echo a . to the console for each second elapsed whilst waiting.
.El
.Pp
These options are only used for starting daemons:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a , -startas Ar name
Change the process name of the daemon to
.Ar name .
This just changes the first argument passed to the daemon.
.It Fl b , -background
Force the daemon into the background. Some daemons don't create pidfiles, so a
good trick is to get the daemon to run in the foreground, and use the this
option along with
.Fl m , -make-pidfile
to create a working pidfile.
.It Fl d , -chdir Ar path
chdir to this directory before starting the daemon.
.It Fl r , -chroot Ar path
chroot to this directory before starting the daemon. All other paths, such
as the path to the daemon, chdir and pidfile, should be relative to the chroot.
.It Fl c , -chuid Ar user
Same as the
.Fl u , -user
option.
.It Fl e , -env Ar VAR=VALUE
Set the environment variable VAR to VALUE.
.It Fl g , -group Ar group
Start the daemon as in the group.
.It Fl k , -umask Ar mode
Set the umask of the daemon.
.It Fl -notify No fd: Ns Ar num | No socket:ready
Open file descriptor
.Ar num
as a pipe, and waits until the daemon writes a newline to it before exiting.
Or waits for
.Ar READY=1
in the datagram socket opened at
.Ar $NOTIFY_SOCKET Ns .
.It Fl m , -make-pidfile
Saves the pid of the daemon in the file specified by the
.Fl p , -pidfile
option. Only useful when used with daemons that run in the foreground and
forced into the background with the
.Fl b , -background
option.
.It Fl I , -ionice Ar class Ns Op : Ns Ar data
Modifies the IO scheduling priority of the daemon.
Class can be 0 for none, 1 for real time, 2 for best effort and 3 for idle.
Data can be from 0 to 7 inclusive.
.It Fl N , -nicelevel Ar level
Modifies the scheduling priority of the daemon.
.It Fl -oom-score-adj Ar adj
Modifies the OOM score adjustment of the daemon.
.It Fl -scheduler Ar policy
Sets the scheduling policy of the daemon. Possible values are other, fifo and rr
on POSIX systems and, additionally, batch and idle on Linux. If
.Ar policy 
is an integer, it is passed directly to pthread_setschedparam(3).
.It Fl -scheduler-priority Ar priority
Sets the priority parameter of the scheduling policy of the daemon. See sched(7) for details.
.It Fl 0 , -stdin Ar file
Redirect the standard input of the process to file when started with
.Fl background .
The file Must be an absolute pathname, but relative to the path
optionally given with
.Fl r , -chroot .
The file can also be a named pipe. The file must exist, otherwise an error is emitted.
.It Fl 1 , -stdout Ar logfile
Redirect the standard output of the process to logfile when started with
.Fl background .
The logfile Must be an absolute pathname, but relative to the path
optionally given with
.Fl r , -chroot .
The logfile can also be a named pipe.
.It Fl 2 , -stderr Ar logfile
Redirect the standard error of the process to logfile when started with
.Fl background .
The logfile must be an absolute pathname, but relative to the path
optionally given with
.Fl r , -chroot .
The logfile can also be a named pipe.
.It Fl 3 , -stdout-logger Ar cmd
Run cmd as a child process redirecting the standard output to the
standard input of cmd when started with
.Fl background .
Cmd must be an absolute pathname, but relative to the path optionally given with
.Fl r , -chroot .
This process must be prepared to accept input on stdin and be able to
log it or send it to another location.
.It Fl 4 , -stderr-logger Ar cmd
Run cmd as a child process and 
Redirect the standard error of the process to the standard input of cmd
when started with
.Fl background .
Cmd must be an absolute pathname, but relative to the path optionally given with
.Fl r , -chroot .
This process must be prepared to accept input on stdin and be able to
log it or send it to another location.
.It Fl -capabilities Ar cap-list
Start the daemon with the listed inheritable, ambient and bounding capabilities.
The format is the same as in cap_iab(3).
.It Fl -secbits Ar sec-bits
Set the security-bits for the program.
The numeric value of the security-bits can be found in <sys/secbits.h> header file.
The format is the same as in strtoul(3).
.It Fl -no-new-privs
Set the No New Privs flag for the program. See PR_SET_NO_NEW_PRIVS prctl(2).
.It Fl w , -wait Ar milliseconds
Wait
.Ar milliseconds
after starting and check that daemon is still running.
Useful for daemons that check configuration after forking or stopping race
conditions where the pidfile is written out after forking.
.El
.Pp
These options are only used for stopping daemons:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl R , -retry Ar timeout | Ar signal Ns / Ns Ar timeout
The retry specification can be either a timeout in seconds or multiple
signal/timeout pairs (like SIGTERM/5).
If this option is not given, the default is SIGTERM/5.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Va SSD_IONICELEVEL
can also set the IO scheduling priority of the daemon, but the command line
option takes precedence.
.Pp
.Va SSD_NICELEVEL
can also set the scheduling priority of the daemon, but the command line
option takes precedence.
.Pp
.Va SSD_OOM_SCORE_ADJ
can also set the OOM score adjustment of the daemon, but the command line
option takes precedence.
.Pp
.Va SSD_STARTWAIT
As the
.Fl w , -wait option above.
.Pa /etc/rc.conf
.Nm
waits for to check the daemon is still running.
.Sh NOTE
.Nm
uses
.Xr getopt 3
to parse its options, which allows it to accept the `--' option which will
cause it to stop processing options at that point. Any subsequent arguments
are passed as arguments to the daemon to start and used when finding a daemon
to stop or signal.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chdir 2 ,
.Xr chroot 2 ,
.Xr getopt 3 ,
.Xr nice 2 ,
.Xr rc_find_pids 3
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
cannot stop an interpreted daemon that no longer exists without a pidfile.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in Debian.
.Pp
This is a complete re-implementation with the process finding code in the
OpenRC library (librc, -lrc) so other programs can make use of it.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>
